Problem Statement   
To develop an AI-Powered OSINT Analysis and Monitoring system 
that can apply advanced and state of the art AI and statistical 
Algorithms to undertake analysis and real time monitoring of user 
defined subjects/ topics/ information domain through sifting of vast 
amount of global OSINT Data. 

Challenge Brief/ Definition 
1. The surge of OSINT data coupled with the exponential increase in 
computational capabilities, necessitates the integration of 
advanced algorithms to effectively manage and analyse this 
information. 
2. Traditional methods of data handling are increasingly inadequate 
due to the sheer volume of data, limited manpower, and the time
sensitive nature of intelligence needs. Recent conflicts testify the 
same. 
3. Employment of advanced AI algorithms such as Natural Language 
Processing (NLP), Large Language Models (LLM), Web 
Scraping, Computer Vision, clustering tools and other data mining 
techniques is now essential. These methods can automate the 
extraction, analysis and interpretation of data. 
4. Identification and weeding out artificially generated content/ deep 
fake content often called as “Misinformation” also needs to be 
addressed to produce actionable and accurate intelligence. These 
activities are not only labour-intensive but also prone to 
inconsistencies and errors due to human limitation. 
5. Therefore, there is a critical need for an OSINT Analysis and 
monitoring system that can automate these processes to a very 
large extent that provides relevant, reliable and timely information 
from vast amount of global data. Post extraction and analysis of 
OSINT data through user defined contextual filters, intuitive 
presentation of actionable intelligence is vital which is also 
proposed to be addressed through an interactive application as the 
foundation. 
6. Broad plan is to develop a 5 module application. 
6.1 Module 1- Source credibility check definition of credibility 
based on user defined factors/ criterion. 
6.2 Module 2- Open-Source content analysis. 
6.3 Module 3- Social media content analysis. 
6.4 Module 4- Images & video analysis. 
6.5 Module 5- Report extraction and GIS based outputs (Intuitive 
visualisation) based on open source LLMs). 
7.  Data mining and aggregation for sifting through vast amounts of 
data to extract and aggregates the most relevant information. User 
defined real time monitoring of specific aspects.